Exercises

Use Sakila Database:
For this exercise we will use the Sakila database that we have been using during the SQL review. It is an example database that simulates a movie rental store. It contains tables such as film (movies), actor (actors),
customer (customers), rental (rentals), category (categories), among others. These tables contain information about
movies, actors, customers, rentals, and more, and are used to perform queries and data analysis in the context of a
movie rental store.
1. Select all movie names without duplicates.
2. Display the names of all movies that have a "PG-13" rating.
3. Find the title and description of all movies that contain the word "amazing" in their description.
4. Find the title of all movies that are longer than 120 minutes.
5. Retrieve the names of all actors.
6. Find the first and last names of actors who have "Gibson" in their last name.
7. Find the names of actors who have an actor_id between 10 and 20.
8. Find the titles of movies in the film table that are neither "R" nor "PG-13" in rating.
9. Find the total number of movies in each rating in the film table and display the rating along with
the count.
10. Find the total number of movies rented by each customer and display the customer ID, first name, and
last name along with the number of movies rented.
11. Find the total number of movies rented by category and display the category name along with the
rental count.
12. Find the average length of movies for each rating in the film table and display the
rating along with the average length.
13. Find the first and last names of actors who appear in the movie with title "Indian Love".
14. Display the title of all movies that contain the word "dog" or "cat" in their description.
15. There is an actor or actress that does not appear in any movie in the film_actor table.
16. Find the title of all movies that were released between 2005 and 2010.
17. Find the title of all movies that are in the same category as "Family."
18. Display the first and last name of actors who appear in more than 10 movies.
19. Find the title of all movies that are "R" and have a duration greater than 2 hours in the film table.
20. Find the movie categories that have an average duration greater than 120 minutes and display the category name along with the average duration.
21. Find the actors who have acted in at least 5 movies and display the actor's name along with the number of movies they have acted in.
22. Find the title of all movies that were rented for more than 5 days. Use a subquery to
find rental_ids with a duration greater than 5 days and then select the corresponding movies.
23. Find the first and last names of actors who have not acted in any movies in the "Horror" category.
Use a subquery to find actors who have acted in movies in the "Horror" category and then
exclude them from the list of actors.
BONUS
24. BONUS: Find the title of movies that are comedies and have a duration greater than 180 minutes in the
film table.
25. BONUS: Find all actors who have acted together in at least one movie. The query should return the
first and last names of the actors and the number of movies they have acted in together.